---
layout: post
title: "2nd Cardiff NLP Summer Workshop"
date: 2023-06-26 00:00:00
description: "Evolution of political discourse in Madrid: a case study in the transport domain"
tags: poster
categories: workshop
related_posts: true
toc:
  beginning: true
---

I presented a poster [Evolution of political discourse in Madrid: a case study in the transport domain](https://github.com/Ibaii99/2nd-Cardiff-NLP-Summer-Workshop/blob/main/POSTER_CARDIFF_IBAI.pdf) in the [2nd Cardiff NLP Summer Workshop](https://2023.cardiffnlpworkshop.org).

The Cardiff NLP Group is organising an in-person workshop on Natural Language Processing (NLP). It will take place on 26-27 June 2023 in Abacws, the brand-new building for the School of Computer Science and the School of Mathematics at Cardiff University. The workshop is especially intended to NLP practitioners and researchers, but everyone would be welcome. Registration is free, but the capacity is limited.

## 🧭Motivation

Social networks play a fundamental role in political discourse. They have changed the way politics is made and consumed. Political parties use social media, such as Twitter, to share their opinion on news and events. During the electoral campaign, these social networks are a strategic tool to convince the electorate. The interaction generated on these networks generates ideological debates that have a direct impact on electoral results.

The speech shared by these organisations on social media is usually different from the speech shared through other channels. The immediacy of social media and discussions can produce **inconsistencies in the speech** of organisations over time. This can involve false promises (discrepancy between rhetoric and action), changes of opinion, or contradictions around a given subject.

The electoral campaign's objective is to get as many votes as possible. This motivates political parties to share news that favours them or harms their opponents. Sometimes the veracity of the news is not checked and they share hoaxes, producing a **bias** in the electorate **through fake news**.
        
{% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/posts/cardiff24-1.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}

## ⚠️Proposed solution

<div class="row mt-3">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.liquid path="assets/img/posts/cardiff24-2.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" zoomable=true %}
    </div>
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        Working with cross-channel content have several difficulties. To face these complications we propose an ontology-based approach. From the definition of ontologies ([“*specification of a conceptualization*”](http://www-ksl.stanford.edu/kst/what-is-an-ontology.html)), we find in them the way to specify the concepts, knowledge and relations we wanted to manage.

        We build an ontology in which the speeches produced by the same organisation in a temporal space coexist and can be exploited. We assume that a speech is any content published by the same entity, whatever its type, channel and size. This abstraction allow us to work with the speeches generated by any organisation at any time, regardless of the channel through where the information was published. These organisations could be governments, business, political parties, etc.

        It allow different organisations to coexist and be recognised. Both in the speeches they produce and in those in which they are mentioned, quoted or referenced. In addition, it allow the speeches to be divided by themes and by time.
    </div>
</div>

## 🔜Future work

We defined several tasks that could be carried out as future work with our infrastructure:

1. Discrepancy Identification between Rhetoric and Action.
    1. Detect political parties social media posts that correspond to political proposals.
    2. Identify incompatible political proposals between parties. Or find similar ones.
    3. Identify political parties opinion in social media about other parties political proposals.
2. Inconsistency Detection in Political Speech.
    1. Contradiction in the speech: Detect which political proposals that where criticised by a political party in the social media are present in its party manifesto.
    2. Inconsistencies in speech: Detect whether the above occurs but with the political manifesto of the previous or the following year.
    3. Detect changes of opinion about a certain topic. If several changes, track them.
3. Bias Measurement in Fake News.
    1. Detect fake news.
    2. Detect if fake news are shared intentionally.
    3. Measure the effect of each fake new in the political campaign.
    4. Detect whether the agent regrets sharing it.
    5. Detect the source of the fake new, how it was created and with what intentions.
4. Enrich the knowledge graph with more information.
    1. Add Facebook data.
    2. Add principal politicians data (both twitter and Facebook).
    3. Add new organisations. E. g.: Media as organisation, the posts on social media of the official account (if any) and the news published.
5. Digitise resources: Political Manifestos, News, Electoral Debates, etc.

And more tasks …

## 📨Contact us

Please contact us for collaborations, suggestion or questions at: ibai.guillen@upm.es
